Gemma PEFT Blogpost (#1843)
huggingface/blog: gemma-peft.md

---

> title: Fine-Tuning Gemma Models in Hugging Face

Author: I noticed that. Should we just use the image we have after the first paragraph. Or do you have any suggestions for the thumbnail?

> title: Fine-Tuning Gemma Models in Hugging Face

Reviewer: Ideally it should be more visual and with a size ratio of 1300x650 for best results everywhere. Perhaps you can play with the Gemma logo and mention PEFT? You can check [the main page](https://huggingface.co/blog) for inspiration :)

> title: Fine-Tuning Gemma Models in Hugging Face

Author: Done. PTAL.

authors:

> - user: sivaibhav

Author: Thanks @osanseviero , does '- guest' line you added solves this?

<div class="flex items-center justify-center">
<img src="/blog/assets/gemma-peft/Gemma-peft.png" alt="Gemma Deploy">
</div>

The Gemma family of models also happens to be well suited for prototyping and experimentation using the free GPU resource via Colab. In this post we will briefly review how you can do Parameter Efficient FineTuning (PEFT) for Gemma models, using Hugging Face Transformer and PEFT library on GPUs and Cloud TPUs for anyone who wants to fine-tune Gemma models on their own dataset

# Why PEFT?
The default (full weight) training for language models, even for modest sizes tends to be memory and compute intensive. On one hand, it can be prohibitive for users relying on openly available compute platforms such as a Colab or Kaggle notebook for learning and experimentation. And on the other hand even for enterprise users, the cost of adapting these models for different domains is an important metric to optimize. PEFT or parameter efficient fine tuning is a popular technique to accomplish this at low cost. 

> # PyTorch on GPU and TPU
> Gemma models in HuggingFace transformers are well optimized for both PyTorch and PyTorch/XLA. This enables both TPU and GPU users to access and experiment with Gemma models as needed. Together with the Gemma release, we also improved the [FSDP](https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/15/open-source/fsdp/) experience for PyTorch/XLA in Hugging Face. This [FSDP via SPMD](https://github.com/pytorch/xla/issues/6379) integration also allows other Hugging Face models to take advantage of TPU acceleration via PyTorch/XLA. In this post we will focus on PEFT, more specifically, Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), for Gemma models. For a more comprehensive set of LoRA techniques we encourage readers to review the [Scaling Down to Scale Up, from Lialin et al](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.15647.pdf) and [this](https://pytorch.org/blog/finetune-llms/) excellent blog post by Belkada et al. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## PyTorch on GPU and TPU

Gemma models in Hugging Face `transformers` are optimized for both PyTorch and PyTorch/XLA. This enables both TPU and GPU users to access and experiment with Gemma models as needed. Together with the Gemma release, we also improved the [FSDP](https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/15/open-source/fsdp/) experience for PyTorch/XLA in Hugging Face. This [FSDP via SPMD](https://github.com/pytorch/xla/issues/6379) integration also allows other Hugging Face models to take advantage of TPU acceleration via PyTorch/XLA. In this post, we will focus on PEFT, more specifically, Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), for Gemma models. For a more comprehensive set of LoRA techniques, we encourage readers to review the [Scaling Down to Scale Up, from Lialin et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.15647.pdf) and [this](https://pytorch.org/blog/finetune-llms/) excellent blog post by Belkada et al. 
```

> # Low-Rank Adaptation for Large Language Models
> Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is one of the parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques for large language models (LLMs). It incorporates a fraction of total model parameters to be fine-tuned by freezing the original model and only training an adapter layer which is decomposed into low rank matrices. PEFT library provides an easy abstraction which allows users to select particular layers from the model where adapter weights are applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Low-Rank Adaptation for Large Language Models

Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is one of the parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques for large language models (LLMs). It incorporates a fraction of total model parameters to be fine-tuned by freezing the original model and only training an adapter layer which is decomposed into low-rank matrices. PEFT library provides an easy abstraction that allows users to select particular layers from the model where adapter weights are applied.
```

```python
from peft import LoraConfig

lora_config = LoraConfig(
    r=8,
    target_modules=["q_proj", "o_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    task_type="CAUSAL_LM",
)
```

In this snippet we refer to all `nn.Linear` layers as the target layers to be adapted.

In the following example, we will leverage [QLoRA, from Dettmers et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) in order to quantize the base model in 4-bit precision for a more memory efficient fine-tuning protocol. A model can be loaded with QLoRA by first installing a `bitsandbytes` library on your environment, then passing a `BitsAndBytesConfig` object to `from_pretrained` when loading the model.

> # Before we begin
> In order to access Gemma model artifacts, the users are required to accept the consent form here ([link](https://www.kaggle.com/models/google/gemma/license/consent)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Before we begin

In order to access Gemma model artifacts, the users are required to accept the consent form here ([link](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b-it)).
```

Now let’s get started with an implementation.

> # Learning to quote
> Assuming that you have submitted the consent form, you can access the model artifact from the [Hugging Face models](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/gemma-release-65d5efbccdbb8c4202ec078b).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Learning to quote

Assuming that you have submitted the consent form, you can access the model artifact from the [Hugging Face models](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/gemma-release-65d5efbccdbb8c4202ec078b).
```

```python
import transformers
from trl import SFTTrainer

def formatting_func(example):
    text = f"Quote: {example['quote'][0]}\nAuthor: {example['author'][0]}"
    return [text]

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data["train"],
    args=transformers.TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=1,
        gradient_accumulation_steps=4,
        warmup_steps=2,
        max_steps=10,
        learning_rate=2e-4,
        fp16=True,
        logging_steps=1,
        output_dir="outputs",
        optim="paged_adamw_8bit"
    ),
    peft_config=lora_config,
    formatting_func=formatting_func,
)
trainer.train()
```

Finally we are ready to test the model once more with the same prompt we used earlier:

```python
text = "Quote: Imagination is"
device = "cuda:0"
inputs = tokenizer(text, return_tensors="pt").to(device)

outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=20)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

This time we get the response in the format we like:

```
Quote: Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.

Author: Albert Einstein
```

> # Accelerate with FSDP via SPMD on TPU
> As mentioned earlier, HuggingFace transformers now support PyTorch/XLA’s latest FSDP implementation. This can greatly accelerate the fine-tuning speed. To enable that, one just need to add a FSDP config to the `transformers.trainer`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

# Accelerate with FSDP via SPMD on TPU
As mentioned earlier, Hugging Face `transformers` now support PyTorch/XLA’s latest FSDP implementation. This can greatly accelerate the fine-tuning speed. To enable that, one just needs to add an FSDP config to the `transformers.Trainer`:
```

```python
from transformers import DataCollatorForLanguageModeling, Trainer, TrainingArguments

# Set up the FSDP config. To enable FSDP via SPMD, set xla_fsdp_v2 to True.
fsdp_config = {"fsdp_transformer_layer_cls_to_wrap": [
        "GemmaDecoderLayer"
    ],
    "xla": True,
    "xla_fsdp_v2": True,
    "xla_fsdp_grad_ckpt": True}

# Finally, set up the trainer and train the model.
trainer = Trainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data,
    args=TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=64,  # This is actually the global batch size for SPMD.
        num_train_epochs=100,
        max_steps=-1,
        output_dir="./output",
        optim="adafactor",
        logging_steps=1,
        dataloader_drop_last = True,  # Required for SPMD.
        fsdp="full_shard",
        fsdp_config=fsdp_config,
    ),
    data_collator=DataCollatorForLanguageModeling(tokenizer, mlm=False),
)
trainer.train()
```

# Next Steps

> We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/tree/main/examples), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/tree/main/examples). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit Gemma documentation, and our launch blog for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 

Reviewer 3: Will it be better to link to the script directly? Say
1. https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/notebook_sft_peft.ipynb
2. https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/example_fsdp.py

Author: Updated.

> # Next Steps
> We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/tree/main/examples), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/tree/main/examples). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit Gemma documentation, and our launch blog for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next Steps

We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full Colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/tree/main/examples), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/tree/main/examples). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open-source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit Gemma documentation and our launch blog for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 
```

---
title: Fine-Tuning Gemma Models in Hugging Face
authors:

> - user: sivaibhav

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- user: svaibhav
```

  guest: true
- user: alanwaketan
  guest: true

> - user: younes
> - user: arthur

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- user: ybelkada
- user: ArthurZ
```

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Fine-Tuning Gemma Models in Hugging Face

```

The title also needs to be present in the body, in addition to being in the metadata :)

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: I'd maybe remove this heading since it comes immediately after the title, see https://huggingface.co/blog/gemma for an example of how this is rendered.

We recently announced that [Gemma](https://huggingface.co/blog/gemma), the open weights language model from Google Deepmind, is available for the broader open-source community via Hugging Face. It’s available in 2 billion and 7 billion parameter sizes with pretrained and instruction-tuned flavors. It’s available on Hugging Face, supported in TGI, and easily accessible for deployment and fine-tuning in the Vertex Model Garden and Google Kubernetes Engine.

<div class="flex items-center justify-center">
<img src="/blog/assets/gemma-peft/Gemma-peft.png" alt="Gemma Deploy">
</div>

> The Gemma family of models also happens to be well suited for prototyping and experimentation using the free GPU resource via Colab. In this post we will briefly review how you can do Parameter Efficient FineTuning (PEFT) for Gemma models, using Hugging Face Transformer and PEFT library on GPUs and Cloud TPUs for anyone who wants to fine-tune Gemma models on their own dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gemma family of models also happens to be well suited for prototyping and experimentation using the free GPU resource via Colab. In this post we will briefly review how you can do Parameter Efficient FineTuning (PEFT) for Gemma models, using the Hugging Face Transformers and PEFT libraries on GPUs and Cloud TPUs for anyone who wants to fine-tune Gemma models on their own dataset.
```

## Low-Rank Adaptation for Large Language Models

Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is one of the parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques for large language models (LLMs). It incorporates a fraction of total model parameters to be fine-tuned by freezing the original model and only training an adapter layer which is decomposed into low-rank matrices. PEFT library provides an easy abstraction that allows users to select particular layers from the model where adapter weights are applied.

```python
from peft import LoraConfig

lora_config = LoraConfig(
    r=8,
    target_modules=["q_proj", "o_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    task_type="CAUSAL_LM",
)
```

In this snippet we refer to all `nn.Linear` layers as the target layers to be adapted.

> In the following example, we will leverage [QLoRA, from Dettmers et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) in order to quantize the base model in 4-bit precision for a more memory efficient fine-tuning protocol. A model can be loaded with QLoRA by first installing a `bitsandbytes` library on your environment, then passing a `BitsAndBytesConfig` object to `from_pretrained` when loading the model.

Reviewer: There's also a [blog post about QLoRA](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), just in case you want to refer to something less technical and closer in style.

## Before we begin

> In order to access Gemma model artifacts, the users are required to accept the consent form here ([link](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b-it)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to access Gemma model artifacts, users are required to accept [the consent form](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b-it).
```

Now let’s get started with an implementation.

## Learning to quote

> Assuming that you have submitted the consent form, you can access the model artifact from the [Hugging Face models](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/gemma-release-65d5efbccdbb8c4202ec078b).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that you have submitted the consent form, you can access the model artifacts from the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/gemma-release-65d5efbccdbb8c4202ec078b).
```

> We start by downloading the model and tokenizer into the respective objects. Here we are also including BitsAndBytesConfig for weight only quantization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by downloading the model and tokenizer into the respective objects. Here we are also including `BitsAndBytesConfig` for weight only quantization.
```

```python
import torch

> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, BitsAndBytesConfig, GemmaTokenizer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM, BitsAndBytesConfig
```

model_id = "google/gemma-2b"
bnb_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_quant_type="nf4",
    bnb_4bit_compute_dtype=torch.bfloat16
)

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id, token=os.environ['HF_TOKEN'])

> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id, quantization_config=bnb_config, device_map={"":0}, token=os.environ['HF_TOKEN'])

Reviewer: This requires the user to add the token to the environment. Maybe we could just mention in the text that the user has to be logged in to the Hugging Face Hub. In that case there'd be no need to include the `token` parameter as it will be picked up automatically.

Author: In the source colab, we took this approach. Alternatively we could have included the login to the hub  step. I found this approach to be more explicit and intuitive.

```python
import transformers
from trl import SFTTrainer

def formatting_func(example):
    text = f"Quote: {example['quote'][0]}\nAuthor: {example['author'][0]}"
    return [text]

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data["train"],
    args=transformers.TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=1,
        gradient_accumulation_steps=4,
        warmup_steps=2,
        max_steps=10,
        learning_rate=2e-4,
        fp16=True,
        logging_steps=1,
        output_dir="outputs",
        optim="paged_adamw_8bit"
    ),
    peft_config=lora_config,
    formatting_func=formatting_func,
)
trainer.train()
```

Finally we are ready to test the model once more with the same prompt we used earlier:

```python
text = "Quote: Imagination is"
device = "cuda:0"
inputs = tokenizer(text, return_tensors="pt").to(device)

outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=20)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

This time we get the response in the format we like:

```
Quote: Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.

Author: Albert Einstein
```

> # Accelerate with FSDP via SPMD on TPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accelerate with FSDP via SPMD on TPU

```

The level-1 heading is reserved for the title :)

As mentioned earlier, Hugging Face `transformers` now support PyTorch/XLA’s latest FSDP implementation. This can greatly accelerate the fine-tuning speed. To enable that, one just needs to add an FSDP config to the `transformers.Trainer`:

```python
from transformers import DataCollatorForLanguageModeling, Trainer, TrainingArguments

# Set up the FSDP config. To enable FSDP via SPMD, set xla_fsdp_v2 to True.
fsdp_config = {"fsdp_transformer_layer_cls_to_wrap": [
        "GemmaDecoderLayer"
    ],
    "xla": True,
    "xla_fsdp_v2": True,
    "xla_fsdp_grad_ckpt": True}

# Finally, set up the trainer and train the model.
trainer = Trainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data,
    args=TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=64,  # This is actually the global batch size for SPMD.
        num_train_epochs=100,
        max_steps=-1,
        output_dir="./output",
        optim="adafactor",
        logging_steps=1,
        dataloader_drop_last = True,  # Required for SPMD.
        fsdp="full_shard",
        fsdp_config=fsdp_config,
    ),
    data_collator=DataCollatorForLanguageModeling(tokenizer, mlm=False),
)
trainer.train()
```

> # Next Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next Steps

```

> We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/notebook_sft_peft.ipynb), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/example_fsdp.py). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit Gemma documentation, and our launch blog for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/notebook_sft_peft.ipynb), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/example_fsdp.py). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit the [Gemma documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.38.0/en/model_doc/gemma), as well as our launch blog for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 
```

Maybe also link either the HF blog post or Google's.

thumbnail: /blog/assets/gemma-peft/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: svaibhav
  guest: true
- user: alanwaketan
  guest: true
- user: ybelkada
- user: ArthurZ
---

# Fine-Tuning Gemma Models in Hugging Face

We recently announced that [Gemma](https://huggingface.co/blog/gemma), the open weights language model from Google Deepmind, is available for the broader open-source community via Hugging Face. It’s available in 2 billion and 7 billion parameter sizes with pretrained and instruction-tuned flavors. It’s available on Hugging Face, supported in TGI, and easily accessible for deployment and fine-tuning in the Vertex Model Garden and Google Kubernetes Engine.

<div class="flex items-center justify-center">
<img src="/blog/assets/gemma-peft/Gemma-peft.png" alt="Gemma Deploy">
</div>

The Gemma family of models also happens to be well suited for prototyping and experimentation using the free GPU resource via Colab. In this post we will briefly review how you can do Parameter Efficient FineTuning (PEFT) for Gemma models, using the Hugging Face Transformers and PEFT libraries on GPUs and Cloud TPUs for anyone who wants to fine-tune Gemma models on their own dataset.

## Why PEFT?

> The default (full weight) training for language models, even for modest sizes, tends to be memory and compute-intensive. On one hand, it can be prohibitive for users relying on openly available compute platforms such as a Colab or Kaggle notebook for learning and experimentation. And on the other hand even for enterprise users, the cost of adapting these models for different domains is an important metric to optimize. PEFT, or parameter-efficient fine tuning is a popular technique to accomplish this at low cost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default (full weight) training for language models, even for modest sizes, tends to be memory and compute-intensive. On one hand, it can be prohibitive for users relying on openly available compute platforms for learning and experimentation, such as Colab or Kaggle. On the other hand, and even for enterprise users, the cost of adapting these models for different domains is an important metric to optimize. PEFT, or parameter-efficient fine tuning, is a popular technique to accomplish this at low cost.
```

## PyTorch on GPU and TPU

> Gemma models in Hugging Face `transformers` are optimized for both PyTorch and PyTorch/XLA. This enables both TPU and GPU users to access and experiment with Gemma models as needed. Together with the Gemma release, we also improved the [FSDP](https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/15/open-source/fsdp/) experience for PyTorch/XLA in Hugging Face. This [FSDP via SPMD](https://github.com/pytorch/xla/issues/6379) integration also allows other Hugging Face models to take advantage of TPU acceleration via PyTorch/XLA. In this post, we will focus on PEFT, more specifically, Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), for Gemma models. For a more comprehensive set of LoRA techniques, we encourage readers to review the [Scaling Down to Scale Up, from Lialin et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.15647.pdf) and [this](https://pytorch.org/blog/finetune-llms/) excellent blog post by Belkada et al. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gemma models in Hugging Face `transformers` are optimized for both PyTorch and PyTorch/XLA. This enables both TPU and GPU users to access and experiment with Gemma models as needed. Together with the Gemma release, we also improved the [FSDP](https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/15/open-source/fsdp/) experience for PyTorch/XLA in Hugging Face. This [FSDP via SPMD](https://github.com/pytorch/xla/issues/6379) integration also allows other Hugging Face models to take advantage of TPU acceleration via PyTorch/XLA. In this post, we will focus on PEFT, and more specifically on Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), for Gemma models. For a more comprehensive set of LoRA techniques, we encourage readers to review the [Scaling Down to Scale Up, from Lialin et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.15647.pdf) and [this excellent post](https://pytorch.org/blog/finetune-llms/) post by Belkada et al. 
```

## Low-Rank Adaptation for Large Language Models

> Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is one of the parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques for large language models (LLMs). It incorporates a fraction of total model parameters to be fine-tuned by freezing the original model and only training an adapter layer which is decomposed into low-rank matrices. PEFT library provides an easy abstraction that allows users to select particular layers from the model where adapter weights are applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is one of the parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques for large language models (LLMs). It addresses just a fraction of the total number of model parameters to be fine-tuned, by freezing the original model and only training adapter layers that are decomposed into low-rank matrices. The [PEFT library](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) provides an easy abstraction that allows users to select the model layers  where adapter weights should be applied.
```

```python
from peft import LoraConfig

lora_config = LoraConfig(
    r=8,
    target_modules=["q_proj", "o_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    task_type="CAUSAL_LM",
)
```

In this snippet we refer to all `nn.Linear` layers as the target layers to be adapted.

> In the following example, we will leverage [QLoRA](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), from [Dettmers et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) in order to quantize the base model in 4-bit precision for a more memory efficient fine-tuning protocol. A model can be loaded with QLoRA by first installing a `bitsandbytes` library on your environment, then passing a `BitsAndBytesConfig` object to `from_pretrained` when loading the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we will leverage [QLoRA](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), from [Dettmers et al.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314), in order to quantize the base model in 4-bit precision for a more memory efficient fine-tuning protocol. The model can be loaded with QLoRA by first installing the `bitsandbytes` library on your environment, then passing a `BitsAndBytesConfig` object to `from_pretrained` when loading the model.
```

## Before we begin

In order to access Gemma model artifacts, users are required to accept [the consent form](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b-it).
Now let’s get started with an implementation.

## Learning to quote

Assuming that you have submitted the consent form, you can access the model artifacts from the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/gemma-release-65d5efbccdbb8c4202ec078b).

> We start by downloading the model and tokenizer into the respective objects. Here we are also including `BitsAndBytesConfig` for weight only quantization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by downloading the model and tokenizer. We also include a `BitsAndBytesConfig` for weight only quantization.
```

bnb_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=True,
    bnb_4bit_quant_type="nf4",
    bnb_4bit_compute_dtype=torch.bfloat16
)

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id, token=os.environ['HF_TOKEN'])
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id, quantization_config=bnb_config, device_map={"":0}, token=os.environ['HF_TOKEN'])
```

Now we test the model before starting the finetuning, using a famous quote:

```python
text = "Quote: Imagination is more"
device = "cuda:0"
inputs = tokenizer(text, return_tensors="pt").to(device)

outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=20)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

The model does a reasonable completion with some extra tokens:
```
Quote: Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.

-Albert Einstein

I
```

But this is not exactly the format we would love the answer to be. Let’s see if we can use fine-tuning to teach the model to generate the answer in the following format.

```
Quote: Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.

Author: Albert Einstein

```

> To begin with, let's select an English quotes dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To begin with, let's select an English quotes dataset.

```

from trl import SFTTrainer

def formatting_func(example):
    text = f"Quote: {example['quote'][0]}\nAuthor: {example['author'][0]}"
    return [text]

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data["train"],
    args=transformers.TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=1,
        gradient_accumulation_steps=4,
        warmup_steps=2,
        max_steps=10,
        learning_rate=2e-4,
        fp16=True,
        logging_steps=1,
        output_dir="outputs",
        optim="paged_adamw_8bit"
    ),
    peft_config=lora_config,
    formatting_func=formatting_func,
)
trainer.train()
```

Finally we are ready to test the model once more with the same prompt we used earlier:

```python
text = "Quote: Imagination is"
device = "cuda:0"
inputs = tokenizer(text, return_tensors="pt").to(device)

outputs = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=20)
print(tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
```

This time we get the response in the format we like:

```
Quote: Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.

Author: Albert Einstein
```

## Accelerate with FSDP via SPMD on TPU

> As mentioned earlier, Hugging Face `transformers` now support PyTorch/XLA’s latest FSDP implementation. This can greatly accelerate the fine-tuning speed. To enable that, one just needs to add an FSDP config to the `transformers.Trainer`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, Hugging Face `transformers` now supports PyTorch/XLA’s latest FSDP implementation. This can greatly accelerate the fine-tuning speed. To enable that, one just needs to add an FSDP config to the `transformers.Trainer`:
```

```python
from transformers import DataCollatorForLanguageModeling, Trainer, TrainingArguments

# Set up the FSDP config. To enable FSDP via SPMD, set xla_fsdp_v2 to True.

> fsdp_config = {"fsdp_transformer_layer_cls_to_wrap": [
>         "GemmaDecoderLayer"
>     ],
>     "xla": True,
>     "xla_fsdp_v2": True,
>     "xla_fsdp_grad_ckpt": True}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fsdp_config = {
    "fsdp_transformer_layer_cls_to_wrap": ["GemmaDecoderLayer"],
    "xla": True,
    "xla_fsdp_v2": True,
    "xla_fsdp_grad_ckpt": True
}
```

# Finally, set up the trainer and train the model.
trainer = Trainer(
    model=model,
    train_dataset=data,
    args=TrainingArguments(
        per_device_train_batch_size=64,  # This is actually the global batch size for SPMD.
        num_train_epochs=100,
        max_steps=-1,
        output_dir="./output",
        optim="adafactor",
        logging_steps=1,
        dataloader_drop_last = True,  # Required for SPMD.
        fsdp="full_shard",
        fsdp_config=fsdp_config,
    ),
    data_collator=DataCollatorForLanguageModeling(tokenizer, mlm=False),
)
trainer.train()
```

## Next Steps

> We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/notebook_sft_peft.ipynb), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/example_fsdp.py). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit the [Gemma documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.38.0/en/model_doc/gemma), as well as our launch blog for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We walked through this simple example adapted from the source notebook to illustrate the LoRA finetuning method applied to Gemma models. The full colab for GPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/notebook_sft_peft.ipynb), and the full script for TPU can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-7b/blob/main/examples/example_fsdp.py). We are excited about the endless possibilities for research and learning thanks to this recent addition to our open source ecosystem. We encourage users to also visit the [Gemma documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.38.0/en/model_doc/gemma), as well as our [launch blog](https://huggingface.co/blog/gemma) for more examples to train, finetune and deploy Gemma models. 
```
